## Rideshare Demand analysis

## Introduction
Rideshare companies like Uber and Lyft have experienced tremendous growth over the last ten years. While some proponents believed this growth would result in reduced congestion by converting round trips to oneway trips, it appears the opposite is true - rideshare seems to be increasing the vehicle miles driven in cities . This raises an important question for key stakeholders in this space: where and when do we anticipate this increase in road usage to occur? For transportation planners and providers, public and private alike, this insight is highly impactful for several reasons. For the public sector, are high-flow times and places not well served by public transportation, and does the current infrastructure support rideshare services adequately? Changing bus routes, increasing the density of bus-stops, or frequency of car-waiting zones in these origin-destination (OD) pairs may be an effective policy choice. For private transportation companies, identification of these predicted geo-temporal peak volume routes could lead to further investigation of riderbase needs for these routes and uncover potential new market offerings for these peaks. 
Predicting rideshare demand isn’t a new problem though. Companies like Uber and Lyft do so everyday in order to price their trips; however, the optimal approach to modeling this demand is still very much a topic of research. Ke et al. developed a custom deep learning architecture, named the fusion convolutional long short-term memory network (FCL-Net), to better capture the spatio-temporal characteristics of rideshare demand.  It stacked multiple convolutional long short-term memory (LSTM) layers, standard LSTM layers, and convolutional layers - and showed significant improvement when compared to traditional benchmark algorithms like artificial neural networks and standard LSTMs. However, this class of problem - demand forecasting - isn’t limited to ridesharing, and has been researched for many other applications. Chang et al. tested Gradient Tree boosting as a method of predicting bike demand as well as computer equipment demand.  The algorithm showed consistently better results than other standard prediction algorithms like support vector regression and multi-layer perceptron, across two very different datasets. 
